#Important#

Transloadit Android SDK works with Android 2.2 Froyo (API level 8) or with later version.

Transloadit api uses Apache HttpComponents library. (Description in: Transloadit Android API -> 1.SDK Dependencies)

#Purpose#

This is the official Android SDK for the transloadit.com API.

Transloadit SDK forT
 Android allows you to use Transloadit services easily in Android applications.

#Directory structure#

- "TransloaditLib" - Whole source of the SDK (Android project)
- "TransloaditLibTest" - Source of Android unit tests (Android test project)
- "bin" - compiled jar file

#Examples#

Transloadit Android SDK is easy to configure, easy to use, easy to develop and easy to extend. Please see the details below.

##Sample application##

The sample application below is the part of a simple Android application.

###1. Upload file, use pre-created template with all required settings###

```Java
package hu.szabot.transloaditTest;

import hu.szabot.transloadit.ITransloadit;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.Transloadit;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.TransloaditResponse;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.assembly.AssemblyBuilder;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.assembly.IAssemblyBuilder;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.exceptions.FileNotOpenableException;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.log.TransloaditLogger;

import java.io.File;
import java.io.IOException;

import android.app.Activity;
import android.os.Bundle;
import android.os.Environment;

public class TransloaditActivity extends Activity{

	@Override
	protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
		super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);

		//Create Transloadit instance
		ITransloadit transloadit = new Transloadit("YOUR-API-KEY-HERE");
		
		//Create assembly builder to build up the assembly
		IAssemblyBuilder assembly = new AssemblyBuilder();

		//Set template ID
		assembly.setTemplateID("YOUR-PRECREATED-TEMPLATE-ID");
				
		try {
			
			//Add a file to be uploaded with autogenerated key
			assembly.addFile(new File(Environment.getExternalStorageDirectory().getPath()+"/YOUR-FILE"));
			
		} catch (FileNotOpenableException e) 
		{
			TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(), e);
		}
       
		try
		{
			//Invoke assembly, and wait for the result
			TransloaditResponse response = transloadit.invokeAssembly(assembly);
			
			if (response.isSuccess())
			{
				TransloaditLogger.logInfo(getClass(), "Assembly %s result", (String)response.getData().get("assembly_id"));
			}
			else
			{
				TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(), "Error has occured while completing assembly");
			}
		}catch (IOException e) 
		{
			TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(),e, "Error has occured while completing assembly");
		}
		
	}
}
```

###2. Upload file, with custom assembly with all required also with optional settings###

```Java
package hu.szabot.transloaditTest;

import hu.szabot.transloadit.ITransloadit;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.Transloadit;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.TransloaditResponse;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.assembly.AssemblyBuilder;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.assembly.IAssemblyBuilder;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.assembly.IStep;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.assembly.Step;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.assembly.exceptions.InvalidFieldKeyException;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.exceptions.FileNotOpenableException;
import hu.szabot.transloadit.log.TransloaditLogger;

import java.io.File;
import java.io.IOException;
import java.util.Date;

import android.app.Activity;
import android.os.Bundle;
import android.os.Environment;

public class TransloaditActivity extends Activity{

	@Override
	protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
		super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
		
		//Create Transloadit instance
		ITransloadit transloadit = new Transloadit("YOUR-API-KEY-HERE");
			
		//Create assembly builder to build up the assembly
		IAssemblyBuilder assembly = new AssemblyBuilder();

		try
		{
			//Add a file to be uploaded with autogenerated key
			assembly.addFile(new File(Environment.getExternalStorageDirectory().getPath()+"/YOUR-FILE"));
		}
		catch (FileNotOpenableException e) 
		{
			TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(), e);
		}
		
		try
		{
			//Add a file to be uploaded with custom key
			assembly.addFile("custom_file",new File(Environment.getExternalStorageDirectory().getPath()+"/YOUR-FILE"));
		}
		catch (FileNotOpenableException e) 
		{
			TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(), e);
		} 
		catch (InvalidFieldKeyException e)
		{
			TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(), e);
		}
		
		//Define the step, you can define more in the same assembly
		IStep step = new Step();
		step.setOption("robot", "/image/resize");
		step.setOption("width", 75);
		step.setOption("height", 75);
		step.setOption("resize_strategy", "pad");
		step.setOption("background", "#000000");
		
		//Add the step to the assembly
		assembly.addStep("thumb", step);
		
		//Set notification URL
		assembly.setNotifyURL("http://your-service.net/ready"); 
		
		//Set the expiration date time of the request for the assembly
		//Assembly will be expired in 120 minutes from now
		assembly.setAuthExpires(new Date(new Date().getTime() + 120 * 60000));
		
		try
		{
			//Invoke assembly, and wait for the result
			TransloaditResponse response = transloadit.invokeAssembly(assembly);
			
			if (response.isSuccess())
			{
				TransloaditLogger.logInfo(getClass(), "Assembly %s result", (String)response.getData().get("assembly_id"));
			}
			else
			{
				TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(), "Error has occured while completing assembly");
			}
			
		}catch (IOException e) 
		{
			TransloaditLogger.logError(getClass(),e, "Error has occured while completing assembly");
		}
	}
}
```

#Transloadit Android API#

You need to download the necessary jar file and integrate it to your application. Also you can pull the source and compile with your application.

##1. SDK Dependencies##

Transloadit api uses Apache HttpComponents library.
You can download it from: http://hc.apache.org/downloads.cgi

Required libraries:

- Httpcore-x.y.jar
- Httpmime-x.y.jar

##2. Use of the SDK##

If you would like to use Android SDK for Transloadit in your application, you need to add it as a jar library, or you need to pull the latest commit, and use the source directly.

Transloadit services work with assemblies. An assembly must contain each information which will be used for authentication and processing. Each assembly must contain authentication information, steps or template ID. You can set custom, and optional values like custom fields and files too.

> **Note:** template ID is the ID of a Transloadit templates that can be defined on Transloadit admin surface

###2.1. Use of `Transloadit` class###

By that class you are able to create a Transloadit instance, which will process all the assemblies sent by your application.

`ITransloadit transloadit = new Transloadit(YOUR-API-KEY);`

> **Note:** You can use Transloadit instance as singleton instance.

###2.2. Build an assembly###

To build up an assembly you need to use `assembly.AssemblyBuilder`.

`IAssemblyBuilder builder = new AssemblyBuilder();`

As described above, you can define steps for your assembly, you can use `assembly.Step` class to do that. Each step must have option(s), can be set by `setOption(String key, Object value)` method. That step will be proceed on your uploaded, or predefined resources.

```Java
//Step below will resize the uploaded image to 75x75 size
//with pad resize strategy also with #000000 background color

IStep step = new Step();
step.setOption("robot", "/image/resize");
step.setOption("width", 75);
step.setOption("height", 75);
step.setOption("resize_strategy", "pad");
step.setOption("background", "#000000");
```

To add that step to your assembly you need to call the `addStep(String name, IStep step)` method, where the `name` parameter is the key of the step. You can refer to that in further steps in the same assmebly, even if you add more.

`builder.addStep("resize", step);`

####2.2.1. Add custom field to the assembly####

Custom fields can be set for each assembly as a parameter of a precreated template. You can set custom fields with `setField(String key, Object value)` method, where the `key` parameter is the unique key of the field and `value` parameter is the value of the field.

If a valid key is not defined in the custom field collection, then it will be created, also the related value will be set. If a valid key is already defined then it will be overriden with the passed value.

There are some field keys which are used by the SDK. You are not able to use these keys as custom field keys such as "notify_url", "params", "signature", "template_id". If you try to use one of those keys, then a `assembly.exceptions.InvalidKeyFieldKeyException` will be thrown.

`assembly.exceptions.AlreadyDefinedFieldKeyException` will be thrown, if you try to use a custom field key, which is already defined as a key of a file (read about files in the next section below).

`builder.setField("field_key", "field_value")`

####2.2.2. Add file to the assembly####

You can call `addFile(File file)` or `addFile(String key, File file)` method, where the `key` parameter is the unique key of the file and the `file` parameter is the File class of the file, on the created `builder` object to add a file to your assembly. 

If you call the method with only the `file` parameter, then the key of the file will be an autogenerated key. If you call the method with both parameters, then the file will be added by the specified key. If the key is already defined as a custom field key or a file key, then an autogenerated key will be set for the file.

`builder.addFile(new File("/yourFile.png"))` or `builder.addFile("custom_file", File("/yourFile.png"))`

####2.2.3. Set authentication information####

You can set authentication information. Some methods give you the possibility to do that, please see examples below. 

Transloadit constructor sets the API key.

Methods can be called on the `builder` object:

- `setAuthExpires(Date date)` - sets the request expiration date (default 120 minutes)
- `setAuthMaxSize(int size)` - sets the max size (in bytes) of the requests

```Java
builder.setAuthExpires(new Date(new Date().getTime() + 120 * 60000)); //Request will be expired after the current date time + 120 minutes
builder.setAuthMaxSize(1024);
```

> **Note:** These methods are optional

####2.2.4. Set notify URL####

You can define notify URL for your assembly by calling `setNotifyURL(String notifyURL)` on the `builder` object, which will be requested after the assembly is done on Transloadit server.

`builder.setNotifyURL("http://your-service.net/ready");`

If your assembly is done, then a POST request will be sent to the specified notify URL. By that request you will get information about the status of the created assembly by the posted `transloadit` field.
If the Transloadit has sent `assembly_url` as a GET parameter, then that URL will be called by a TransloaditRequest.

> **For example:** You have a mobile application, which invokes assemblies via that Android SDK, and you have a REST API service written in PHP, which can handle the request which will be sent after the assembly is done. What you need to do is to integrate PHP Transloadit SDK to your PHP REST API service and call `Transloadit::response()` method, then you will be able to use the result of the assembly in your service (like creating database records, or do something).

####2.2.5. Set template ID####

You can define the template ID which will be used to proceed your assembly on Transloadit server. You can use `setTemplateID(String templateID)` for that, where the `templateID` parameter is the ID of the precreated template.

`builder.setTemplateID("ID-OF-PRECEREATED-TEMPLATE");`

####2.2.6. Create assembly on Transloadit####

After your assembly is built up you can send it to Transloadit server by `invokeAssembly(IAssmeblyBuilder builder)` method, where the `builder` parameter is the built up instance of `AssemblyBuilder` class, that can be called on `transloadit` object. The result of the assembly will be represented in an `ITransloaditResponse` implementation.

`ITransloaditResponse response = transloadit.invokeAssembly(builder);`

After the request is done and `response` object was created, you are able to use it to handle the result by some `response` object properties, please see them below.

- `response.getData()` - gets the response as a dictionary (`Map<String, Object>`)
- `response.getResponseString()` - gets the response string
- `response.isSuccess()` - gets the success of the request

> **Note:** `response.getData()` main Map can store sub Maps as the value of the main Map

####2.2.7. Delete assembly on Transloadit####

Transloadit Android SDK gives you the possibility to delete an assembly on the server. You can call `deleteAssembly(String assemblyID)` method, where `assemblyID` parameter is the ID of an exisiting assembly, on the created `transloadit` object. That call can be useful, when you would like to cancel your assembly invoke process.

´ITransloaditResponse response = transloadit.deleteAssembly("YOUR-CREATED-ASSEMBLY-ID");´

You can handle the response like in case of invoke an assembly.

###2.3. Use of Transloadit logger###

As described above the SDK provides you the possibility to log information and errors. You can use the default `TransloaditLogger`.

- `logInfo(Class<?> type, String message, Object... parameters)` - logs information, where the `type` is the type of the sender object, `message` is the custom log message with parameters and `parameters` are the parameters of the custom log message 
- `logError(Class<?> type, Exception exception, String message, Object... parameters)` - logs error (preferred to use in case of an exception thrown), where the `type` is the type of the sender object, `exception` is the thrown exception, `message` is the custom log message with parameters and `parameters` are the parameters of the custom log message

> **Note: ** `logError(...)` method has more parameter definition

##3. Extend Transloadit .NET API##

The SDK is able to be extended. You can use the interfaces to create own implementation, also you can extend the precreated classes to have an extended SDK. 

##4. Run unit tests##

To pass all unit tests you need JUnit 3. Run the test project as an Android JUnit Test.

###4.1 Constants Class###

To run the tests you need to fill out the Constants.java file.

- API_KEY Your Transloadit API key
- TEST_IMAGE_ON_SD_CARD test image file path on the SD card
- TEMPLATE_ID template ID
- SECRET_KEY Your secret key.
- SIGNATURE_AUTHENTICATION Using server authentication or not. Same as the server settings.